README.md, before:

# CorpsBlog static site generator
-------

# This is not tested software!
![Danger Image](docs/images/danger.jpg "Danger!")

As of this writing, this is software hasn't been thoroughly tested.  It seems
to work OK, but I haven't put it in production yet.

# Corpsblog
CorpsBlog is yet another static site builder.  I took a look around at
things like [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) and [JBake](http://jbake.org/), 
and after playing around I got tired of
figuring out multi-layered complex software, just to make a simple blog.
I figured that if I kept all of the logic in pure Kotlin/Java, I'd end up
with a system that's easier to understand and extend.  I have some
specific needs in mind:

*  I want a responsive site (one that works well with smartphones
   and tablets).
*  I want to have photo galleries that are entirely self-contained on my site.
*  I want to be able to embed video and audio clips, and have automated
   uploads to e.g. YouTube.
*  I want to be able to design and preview entirely off-line.
*  I want a completely automated upload process, designed around the idea that
   I might only have access to the internet every couple of weeks from
   an internet cafe.
*  I want to host on Github pages, where I have the rest of my web sites.
*  If I think of something else, I want to be able to easily extend
   my site generator, without referring to any external documentation
   or depending on anything that I might not have on my local computer.

Kotlin is a perfectly expressive language, so I saw no need to invent yet
more languages on top of it, like a template language.  I used the
"Groovy-like builder" way of making HTML templates.  I'm pretty happy with
how that worked out.  In retrospect, just building strings directly would 
have been fine, too, but it was kind of fun understanding the ins-and-outs
of the builder idiom.  See the HTML class in
src/com/jovial/lib/html/Html.kt (on Github 
[here](https://github.com/zathras/corpsblog/blob/master/src/com/jovial/lib/html/Html.kt) - startInitAssert()/endInitAssert() was interesting and subtle).

# Exernal Code

I grabbed useful stuff from the following places:

*  [Txtmark](https://github.com/rjeschke/txtmark) for a nice, simple
   markdown processor written in Java.
*  [Jbake-uno](https://github.com/tisseurdetoile/jbake-uno) for a
   web theme for the blog.  I took the assets, and translated the
   relevant templates into Kotlin code by hand.
*  [PhotoSwipe](http://photoswipe.com/) for a JavaScript image gallery.
*  The [JHeader](https://sourceforge.net/projects/jheader/?source=directory )
   library to read JPEG EXIF data, so I can auto-rotate images in a gallery.

# The Name "CorpsBlog"

My intent is to provide simple, "core" blogging functionality for my Peace Corps
blog.   OK, I also want to be in complete control...  I tried using [JBake](http://jbake.org/), but in order
to add automatic gallery generation, I'd have had to have waded through too many layers
of integration, JRuby for asciiDoctor, and a sizeable templating framework.  It seemed easier to 
just write my own site generator, and it's certainly more joyful.

Perhaps I'll come up with a better pun for a new name someday...  Maybe something
involving [Mooré](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mossi_language) :-)

#Output Directory Structure

The output looks like this:

* index.html
* posts
  * 2017-06-15-first-optional-name.html
  * 2017-06-15-second-optional-name-2.html
  * 2017-07-12.html
  * pictures
    * 2017-06-15-first-optional-name-1
      * Pictures, in directories "large," "small" and "mosaic"
    * 2017-06-15-second optional-name-2
      * Pictures
    * 2017-07-12-1
      * Pictures
  * videos
     * 2017-07-12-video-0.mp4

Commit message:

Publish test output as https://github.io/zathras/corpsblog/

README.md, after:

# CorpsBlog static site generator
-------

# This is not tested software!
![Danger Image](test/images/danger.jpg "Danger!")

As of this writing, this is software hasn't been thoroughly tested.  It seems
to work OK, but I haven't put it in production yet.

# Corpsblog
CorpsBlog is yet another static site builder.  I took a look around at
things like [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) and [JBake](http://jbake.org/), 
and after playing around I got tired of
figuring out multi-layered complex software, just to make a simple blog.
I figured that if I kept all of the logic in pure Kotlin/Java, I'd end up
with a system that's easier to understand and extend.  I have some
specific needs in mind:

*  I want a responsive site (one that works well with smartphones
   and tablets).
*  I want to have photo galleries that are entirely self-contained on my site.
*  I want to be able to embed video and audio clips, and have automated
   uploads to e.g. YouTube.
*  I want to be able to design and preview entirely off-line.
*  I want a completely automated upload process, designed around the idea that
   I might only have access to the internet every couple of weeks from
   an internet cafe.
*  I want to host on Github pages, where I have the rest of my web sites.
*  If I think of something else, I want to be able to easily extend
   my site generator, without referring to any external documentation
   or depending on anything that I might not have on my local computer.

Kotlin is a perfectly expressive language, so I saw no need to invent yet
more languages on top of it, like a template language.  I used the
"Groovy-like builder" way of making HTML templates.  I'm pretty happy with
how that worked out.  In retrospect, just building strings directly would 
have been fine, too, but it was kind of fun understanding the ins-and-outs
of the builder idiom.  See the HTML class in
src/com/jovial/lib/html/Html.kt (on Github 
[here](https://github.com/zathras/corpsblog/blob/master/src/com/jovial/lib/html/Html.kt) - startInitAssert()/endInitAssert() was interesting and subtle).

# Sample Output

A build of the test blog included in this repository can be seen
at http://github.io/zathras/corpsblog/

# Exernal Code

I grabbed useful stuff from the following places:

*  [Txtmark](https://github.com/rjeschke/txtmark) for a nice, simple
   markdown processor written in Java.
*  [Jbake-uno](https://github.com/tisseurdetoile/jbake-uno) for a
   web theme for the blog.  I took the assets, and translated the
   relevant templates into Kotlin code by hand.
*  [PhotoSwipe](http://photoswipe.com/) for a JavaScript image gallery.
*  The [JHeader](https://sourceforge.net/projects/jheader/?source=directory )
   library to read JPEG EXIF data, so I can auto-rotate images in a gallery.

# The Name "CorpsBlog"

My intent is to provide simple, "core" blogging functionality for my Peace Corps
blog.   OK, I also want to be in complete control...  I tried using [JBake](http://jbake.org/), but in order
to add automatic gallery generation, I'd have had to have waded through too many layers
of integration, JRuby for asciiDoctor, and a sizeable templating framework.  It seemed easier to 
just write my own site generator, and it's certainly more joyful.

Perhaps I'll come up with a better pun for a new name someday...  Maybe something
involving [Mooré](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mossi_language) :-)

#Output Directory Structure

The output looks like this:

* index.html
* posts
  * 2017-06-15-first-optional-name.html
  * 2017-06-15-second-optional-name-2.html
  * 2017-07-12.html
  * pictures
    * 2017-06-15-first-optional-name-1
      * Pictures, in directories "large," "small" and "mosaic"
    * 2017-06-15-second optional-name-2
      * Pictures
    * 2017-07-12-1
      * Pictures
  * videos
     * 2017-07-12-video-0.mp4
